 
  
 
 
微信公众号：神仙小土豆 全年资料免费分享
绝密★启用前 
 
 
 
2000 年全国硕士研究生招生考试 
 
英语 
（科目代码：201） 
 
 
☆考生注意事项☆ 
 
 
1. 答题前，考生须在试题册指定位置上填写考生编号和考生姓名；在答题卡指定位
置上填写报考单位、考生姓名和考生编号，并涂写考生编号信息点。 
2. 考生须把试题册上的“试卷条形码”粘贴条取下，粘贴在答题卡的“试卷条形码
粘贴位置”框中。不按规定粘贴条形码而影响评卷结果的，责任由考生自负。 
3. 选择题的答案必须涂写在答题卡相应题号的选项上，非选择题的答案必须书写在
答题卡指定位置的边框区域内。超出答题区域书写的答案无效；在草稿纸、试题
册上答题无效。 
4. 填（书）写部分必须使用黑色字迹签字笔书写，字迹工整、笔迹清楚；涂写部分 
必须使用 2B 铅笔填涂。 
5. 
考试结束，将答题卡和试题册按规定交回。 
 
（以下信息考生必须认真填写） 
 
 
考生编号  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
考生姓名  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
  
 
 
微信公众号：神仙小土豆 全年资料免费分享
 
 
Section I 
Use of 
English 
 
Directions: 
For each numbered blank in the following passage, there are four choices marked [A], [B], [C], and 
[D]. Choose the best one and mark your answer on ANSWER SHEET 1 by blackening the 
corresponding letter in the brackets with a pencil. (10 points) 
If a farmer wishes to succeed, he must try to keep a wide gap between his consumption and his 
production. He must store a large quantity of grain 1 consuming all his grain immediately. He can 
continue to support himself and his family 2 he produces a surplus. He must use this surplus in 
three ways: as seed for sowing, as an insurance_3_the unpredictable effects of bad weather and as a 
commodity which he must sell in order to 4 old agricultural implements and obtain chemical 
fertilizers to_5_the soil. He may also need money to construct irrigation-----2 _and improve his farm 
in other ways. If no surplus is available, a farmer cannot be 7 . He must either sell some of his 
property or  8  extra funds in the form of loans. Naturally he will try to borrow money at a low_9 
of interest, but loans of this kind are not  10  obtainable. 
 
1. [AJ 
other than 
[BJ 
as well as 
[CJ 
instead of 
[DJ 
more than 
2. [AJ 
only if 
 [BJ  much as 
 [CJ  long before 
 [DJ 
ever smce 
for 
[BJ 
against 
[CJ 
of 
[DJ 
towards 
replace 
 [BJ  purchase 
 [CJ  supplement 
 [DJ 
dispose 
enhance 
[BJ  mlX 
 [CJ  feed 
 [DJ 
raise 
6. [AJ 
vessels 
[BJ 
routes 
[CJ 
paths 
[DJ 
channels 
self-confident 
[BJ 
self-sufficient 
[CJ 
self-satisfied 
[DJ self-restrained 
8. [AJ search 
[BJ 
save 
[CJ 
offer 
[DJ 
seek 
proportion 
[BJ 
percentage 
[CJ 
rate 
[DJ 
ratio 
10. [AJ 
genuinely 
[BJ 
obviously 
[CJ 
presumably 
[DJ 
frequently 
Section II Reading Comprehension 
 
PartA 
Directions: 
Each of the passages below is followed by some questions. For each question there are four answers 
marked [A], [B], [C] and [D]. Read the passages carefully and choose the best answer to each of the 
questions. Then mark your answer on the ANSWER SHEET 1 by blackening the corresponding letter 
in the brackets. (40 points) 
 
 
 
 
 


 
  
 
 
 
 
微信公众号：神仙小土豆 全年资料免费分享


- 2 - 
 
 
Text 1 
A history of long and effortless success can be a dreadful handicap, but, if properly handled, it 
may become a driving force. When the United States entered just such a glowing period after the end 
of the Second World War, it had a market eight times larger than any competitor, giving its industries 
unparalleled economies of scale. Its scientists were the world's best; its workers the most skilled. 
America and Americans were prosperous beyond the dreams of the Europeans and Asians whose 
economies the war had destroyed. 
It was inevitable that this primacy should have narrowed as other countries grew richer. Just as 
inevitably, the retreat from predominance proved painful. By the mid-1980s Americans had found 
themselves at a loss over their fading industrial competitiveness. Some huge American industries, such 
as consumer electronics, had shrunk or vanished in the face of foreign competition. By 1987 there was 
only one American television maker left, Zenith. (Now there is none: Zenith was bought by South 
Korea's LG Electronics in July.) Foreign-made cars and textiles were sweeping into the domestic 
market. America's machine-tool industry was on the ropes. For a while it looked as though the making 
of semiconductors, which America had invented and which sat at the heart of the new computer age, 
was going to be the next casualty. 
All of this caused a crisis of confidence. Americans stopped taking prosperity for granted. They 
began to believe that their way of doing business was failing, and that their incomes would therefore 
shortly begin to fall as well.The mid-1980s brought one inquiry after another into the causes of 
America' s industrial decline. Their sometimes sensational findings were filled with warnings about 
the growing competition from overseas. 
How things have changed! In 1995 the United States can look back on five years of solid growth 
while Japan has been struggling. Few Americans attribute this solely to such obvious causes as a 
devalued dollar or the turning of the business cycle. Self-doubt has yielded to blind pride. American 
industry has changed its structure, has gone on a diet, has learnt to be more quick-witted," according 
to Richard Cavanaugh, executive dean of Harvard' s Kennedy School of Government. "It makes me 
proud to be an American just to see how our businesses are improving their productivity,"says Stephen 
Moore of the Cato Institute, a think-tank in Washington, DC. And William Sahlman of the Harvard 
Business School believes that people will look back on this period as "a golden age of business 
management in the United States." 


- 3 - 
 
 
11. The U.S. achieved its predominance after World War II because  
 
[A] it had made painstaking efforts towards this goal. 
[B] its domestic market was eight times larger than before. 
[C] the war had destroyed the economies of most potential competitors. 
[D] the unparalleled size of its workforce had given an impetus to its economy. 
 
 
12. The loss of U.S. predominance in the world economy in the 1980s is manifested in the fact that the 
American  
 
[A] TV industry had withdrawn to its domestic market. 
[B] semiconductor industry had been taken over by foreign enterprises. 
[C] machine-tool industry had collapsed after suicidal actions. 
[D] auto industry had lost part of its domestic market. 
 
 
13. What can be inferred from the passage? 
[A] It is human nature to shift between self-doubt and blind pride. 
[B] Intense competition may contribute to economic progress. 
[C] The revival of the economy depends on international cooperation. 
[D] A long history of success may pave the way for further development. 
 
14. The author seems to believe the revival of the U.S. economy in the 1990s can be attributed to 
the 
[A] turning of the business cycle 
[B] restructuring of industry 
[C] improved business management 
 
[D] success in education 


- 4 - 
 
 
Text 2 
Being a man has always been dangerous. There are about 105 males born for every 100 females, 
but this ratio drops to near balance at the age of maturity, and among 70-year-olds there are twice as 
many women as men. But the great universal of male mortality is being changed. Now, boy babies 
survive almost as well as girls do. This means that, for the first time, there will be an excess of boys in 
those crucial years when they are searching for a mate. More important, another chance for natural 
selection has been removed. Fifty years ago, the chance of a baby (particularly a boy baby) surviving 
depended on its weight. A kilogram too light or too heavy meant almost certain death. Today it makes 
almost no difference. Since much of the variation is due to genes, one more agent of evolution has 
gone. 
There is another way to commit evolutionary suicide: stay alive, but have fewer children. Few 
people are as fertile as in the past. Except in some religious communities, very few women have 15 
children. Nowadays the number of births, like the age of death, has become average. Most of us have 
roughly the same number of offspring. Again, differences between people and the opportunity for 
natural selection to take advantage of it have diminished. India shows what is happening. The country 
offers wealth for a few in the great cities and poverty for the remaining tribal peoples. The grand 
mediocrity of today - everyone being the same in survival and number of offspring - means that 
natural selection has lost 80% of its power in upper-middle-class India compared to the tribes. 
For us, this means that evolution is over; the biological Utopia has arrived.Strangely, it has 
involved little physical change. No other species fills so many places in nature. But in the past 100, 
000 years-even the past 100 years-our lives have been transformed but our bodies have not. We did 
not evolve, because machines and society did it for us. Darwin had a phrase to describe those ignorant 
of evolution: they "look at an organic being as a savage looks at a ship, as at something wholly 
beyond his comprehension. "No doubt we will remember a 20th century way of life beyond 
comprehension for its ugliness. But however amazed our descendants may be at how far from Utopia 
we were, they will look just like us. 


- 5 - 
 
 
15. What used to be the danger in being a man according to the first paragraph? 
[A] A lack of mates. 
[B] A fierce competition. 
[C] A lower survival rate. 
[D] A defective gene. 
 
 
16. What does the example of India illustrate? 
[A] Wealthy people tend to have fewer children than poor people. 
[B] Natural selection hardly works among the rich and the poor. 
[C] The middle class population is 80% smaller than that of the tribes. 
[D] India is one of the countries with a very high birth rate. 
 
 
17. The author argues that our bodies have stopped evolving because  
 
[A] life has been improved by technological advance 
[B] the number of female babies has been declining 
[C] our species has reached the highest stage of evolution 
[D] the difference between wealth and poverty is disappearing 
 
 
18. Which of the following would be the best title for the passage? 
[A] Sex Ratio Changes in Human Evolution. 
[BJ Ways of Continuing Man's Evolution. 
[C] The Evolutionary Future ofNature. 
[D] Human Evolution GoingNowhere. 


- 6 - 
 
 
Text 3 
When a new movement in art attains a certain fashion, it is advisable to find out what its 
advocates are aiming at, for, however farfetched and unreasonable their principles may seem today, it 
is possible that in years to come they may be regarded as normal. With regard to Futurist poetry, 
however, the case is rather difficult, for whatever Futurist poetry may be -even admitting that the 
theory on which it is based may be right-it can hardly be classed as Literature. 
This, in brief, is what the Futurist says: for a century, past conditions of life have been 
conditionally speeding up, till now we live in a world of noise and violence and speed.Consequently, 
our feelings, thoughts and emotions have undergone a corresponding change.  This speeding up of 
life, says the Futurist, requires a new form of expression. We must speed up our literature too, if we 
want to interpret modem stress. We must pour out a large stream of essential words, unhampered by 
stops, or qualifying adjectives, or finite verbs. Instead of describing sounds we must make up words 
that imitate them; we must use many sizes of type and different colored inks on the same page, and 
shorten or lengthen words at will. 
Certainly their descriptions of battles are confused. But it is a little upsetting to read in the 
explanatory notes that a certain line describes a fight between a Turkish and a Bulgarian officer on a 
bridge off which they both fall into the river -and then to find that the line consists of the noise of 
their falling and the weights of the officers: "Pluff1 Pluff1 A hundred and eighty-five kilograms." 
This, though it fulfills the laws and requirements of Futurist poetry, can hardly be classed as 
Literature. All the same, no thinking man can refuse to accept their first proposition: that a great 
change in our emotional life calls for a change of expression. The whole question is really this: have 
we essentially changed? 


- 7 - 
 
 
19. This passage is mainly  _____ 
[A] a survey of new approaches to art 
[B] a review of Futurist poetry 
[C] about merits of the Futurist movement 
[D] about laws and requirements of literature 
 
 
20. When a novel literary idea appears, people should try to 
[A] determine its purposes 
[B] ignore its flaws 
[C] follow the new fashions 
[D] accept the principles 
 
 
21. Futurists claim that we must 
 
[A] increase the production of literature 
[B] use poetry to relieve modern stress 
[C] develop new modes of expression 
[D] avoid using adjectives and verbs 
 
 
22. The author believes that Futurist poetry is  
 
[A] based on reasonable principles 
[B] new and acceptable to ordinary people 
[C] indicative of a basic change in human nature 
[D] more of a transient phenomenon than literature 


- 8 - 
 
 
Text 4 
Aimlessness has hardly been typical of the postwar Japan whose productivity and social harmony 
are the envy of the United States and Europe. But increasingly the Japanese are seeing a decline of the 
traditional work-moral values. Ten years ago young people were hardworking and saw their jobs as 
their primary reason for being, but now Japan has largely fulfilled its economic needs, and young 
people don't know where they should go next. 
The coming of age of the postwar baby boom and an entry of women into the male-dominated job 
market have limited the opportunities of teen-agers who are already questioning the heavy personal 
sacrifices involved in climbing Japan's rigid social ladder to good schools and jobs. In a recent survey, 
it was found that only 24.5 percent of Japanese students were fully satisfied with school life, compared 
with 67.2 percent of students in the United States. In addition, far more Japanese workers expressed 
dissatisfaction with their jobs than did their counterparts in the 10 other countries surveyed. 
While often praised by foreigners for its emphasis on the basics, Japanese education tends to 
stress test taking and mechanical learning over creativity and self-expression. "Those things that do 
not show up in the test scores-personality, ability, courage or humanity-are completely ignored," 
says Toshiki Kaifu, chairman of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party ' s education committee. 
"Frustration against this kind of thing leads kids to drop out and run wild. " Last year Japan 
experienced 2, 125 incidents of school violence, including 929 assaults on teachers. Amid the outcry, 
many conservative leaders are seeking a return to the prewar emphasis on moral education. Last year 
Mitsuo Setoyama, who was then education minister, raised eyebrows when he argued that liberal 
reforms introduced by the American occupation authorities after World War II had weakened the 
"Japanese morality of respect for parents." 
But that may have more to do with Japanese life-styles. "In Japan," says educator Yoko Muro, 
"it 's never a question of whether you enjoy your job and your life, but only how much you can 
endure. " With economic growth has come centralization; fully 76 percent of Japan 's 119 million 
citizens live in cities where community and the extended family have been abandoned in favor of 
isolated, two-generation households. Urban Japanese have long endured lengthy commutes (travels to 
and from work) and crowded living conditions, but as the old group and family values weaken, the 
discomfort is beginning to tell. In the past decade, the Japanese divorce rate, while still well below that 
of the United States, has increased by more than 50 percent, and suicides have increased by nearly 
one-quarter. 


- 9 - 
 
 
23. In the Westerners' eyes, the postwar Japan was  
 
[A] under aimless development 
[BJ a positive example 
[C] a rival to the West 
[D] on the decline 
 
 
24. According to the author, what may chiefly be responsible for the moral decline of 
Japanese society? 
[A] Women's participation in social activities is limited. 
[B] More workers are dissatisfied with their jobs. 
[C] Excessive emphasis has been placed on the basics. 
[D] The life-style has been influenced by Western values. 
 
 
25. Which of the following is true according to the author  
? 
[A] Japanese education is praised for helping the young climb the social ladder. 
[B] Japanese education is characterized by mechanical learning as well as creativity. 
[C] More stress should be placed on the cultivation of creativity. 
[D] Dropping out leads to frustration against test taking. 
 
 
26. The change in Japanese life-style is revealed in the fact that  
 
[A] the young are less tolerant of discomforts in life 
[B] the divorce rate in Japan exceeds that in the U.S. 
[C] the Japanese endure more than ever before 
[D] the Japanese appreciate their present life 
 


- 10 - 
 
 
Texts 
If ambition is to be well regarded, the rewards of ambition-wealth, distinction, control over one' 
s destiny -must be deemed worthy of the sacrifices made on ambition 's behalf. If the tradition of 
ambition is to have vitality, it must be widely shared; and it especially must be highly regarded by 
people who are themselves admired, the educated not least among them. In an odd way, however, it is 
the educated who have claimed to have given up on ambition as an ideal. What is odd is that they have 
perhaps most benefited from ambition - if not always their own then that of their parents and 
grandparents. There is a heavy note of hypocrisy in this, a case of closing the barn door after the horses 
have escaped-with the educated themselves riding on them. 
Certainly people do not seem less interested in success and its signs now than formerly. Summer 
homes, European travel, BMWs-the locations, place names and name brands may change, but such 
items do not seem less in demand today than a decade or two years ago.What has happened is that 
people cannot confess fully to their dreams, as easily and openly as once they could, lest they be 
thought pushing, acquisitive and vulgar. Instead, we are treated to fine hypocritical spectacles, which 
now more than ever seem in ample supply: the critic of American materialism with a Southampton 
summer home; the publisher of radical books who takes his meals in three-star restaurants; the 
journalist advocating participatory democracy in all phases of life, whose own children are enrolled in 
private schools. For such people and many more perhaps not so exceptional, the proper formulation is, 
"Succeed at all costs but avoid appearing ambitious." 
The attacks on ambition are many and come from various angles; its public defenders are few and 
unimpressive, where they are not extremely unattractive. As a result, the support for ambition as a 
healthy impulse, a quality to be admired and fixed in the mind of the young, is probably lower than it 
has ever been in the United States. This does not mean that ambition is at an end, that people no longer 
feel its stirrings and promptings, but only that, no longer openly honored, it is less openly professed. 
Consequences follow from this, of course, some of which are that ambition is driven underground, or 
made sly. Such, then, is the way things stand: on the left angry critics, on the right stupid supporters, 
and in the middle, as usual, the majority of earnest people trying to get on in life. 


- 11 - 
 
 
27. It is generally believed that ambition may be well regarded if 
 
[A] its returns well compensate for the sacrifices 
[B] it is rewarded with money, fame and power 
[C] its goals are spiritual rather than material 
[D] it is shared by the rich and the famous 
 
 
28. The last sentence of the first paragraph most probably implies that it is 
 
[A] customary of the educated to discard ambition in words 
[BJ too late to check ambition once it has been let out 
[C] dishonest to deny ambition after the fulfillment of the goal 
[D] impractical for the educated to enjoy benefits from ambition 
 
 
29. Some people do not openly admit they have ambition because 
 
[A] they think of it as immoral 
[B] their pursuits are not fame or wealth 
[C] ambition is not closely related to material benefits 
[D] they do not want to appear greedy and contemptible 
 
 
30. From the last paragraph the conclusion can be drawn that ambition should be maintained 
. 
[A] secretly and vigorously 
[B] openly and enthusiastically 
[C] easily and momentarily 
[D] verbally and spiritually 


 
PartB 
Directions: 
Read the following passage carefully and then translate the underlined sentences into Chinese. Your 
translation must be written clearly on the ANSWER SHEET 2. (15 points) 
 
Governments throughout the world act on the assumption that the welfare of their people depends 
largely on the economic strength and wealth of the community. 31 ) Under modem conditions, this 
requires varying measures of centralized control and hence the help of specialized scientists such as 
economists and operational research experts. 32 ) Furthermore, it is obvious that the strength of a 
country's economy is directly bound up with the efficiency of its agriculture and industry, and that this 
in tum rests upon the efforts of scientists and technologists of all kinds. It also means that governments 
are increasingly compelled to interfere in these sectors in order to step up production and ensure that it 
is utilized to the best advantage. For example, they may encourage research in various ways, including 
the setting up of their own research centers; they may alter the structure of education, or interfere in 
order to reduce the wastage of natural resources or tap resources hitherto unexploited; or they may 
cooperate directly in the growing number of international projects related to science, economics and 
industry. In any case, all such interventions are heavily dependent on scientific advice and also 
scientific and technological manpower of all kinds. 
33) Owing to the remarkable development in mass-communications, people everywhere are 
feeling new wants and are being exposed to new customs and ideas, while governments are often 
forced to introduce still further innovations for the reasons given above. At the same time, the normal 
rate of social change throughout the world is taking place at a vastly accelerated speed compared with 
the past. For example, 34 ) in the early industrialized countries of Europe the process of 
industrialization-with all the far-reaching changes in social patterns that followed-was spread over 
nearly a century, whereas nowadays a developing nation may undergo the same process in a decade or 
so. All this has the effect of building up unusual pressures and tensions within the community and 
consequently presents serious problems for the governments concerned. 35) Additional social stresses 
may also occur because of the population explosion or problems arising from mass migration 
movements-themselves made relatively easy nowadays by modem means of transport. As a result of 
all these factors, governments are becoming increasingly dependent on biologists and social scientists 
for planning the appropriate programs and putting them into effect. 
 
 
 
- 12 - 


 
Section III Writing 
 
36. Directions: 
A. Study the following two pictures carefully and write an essay of at least 150 words. 
B. ▼our essay must be written neatly on ANSWER SHEET 2. 
C. ▼our essay should meet the requirements below: 
1) 
) Describe the pictures. 
2) 
Deduce the purpose of the painter of the pictures. 
3) 
Suggest counter-measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Brief Histor  of World Commercial Fishing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 13 - 
