绝密★启用前
2023年全国硕士研究生招生考试
英语（二）
（科目代码：204）
☆考生注意事项众
1. 答题前，考生须在试题册指定位置上填写考生编号和考生姓名；在答题卡指 
定位置上填写报考单位、考生姓名和考生编号，并涂写考生编号信息点。
2. 考生须把试题册上的“试卷条形码”粘贴条取下，粘贴在答题卡的“试卷 
条形码粘贴位置”框中。不按规定粘贴条形码而影响评卷结果的，责任由 
考生自负。
3. 选择题的答案必须涂写在答题卡相应题号的选项上，非选择题的答案必须 
书写在答题卡指定位置的边框区域内。超出答题区域书写的答案无效；在 
草稿纸、试题册上答题无效。
4. 填（书）写部分必须使用黑色字迹签字笔书写，字迹工整、笔迹清楚；涂 
写部分必须使用2B铅笔填涂。
5. 考试结束，将答题卡和试题册按规定交回。
（以下信息考生必须认真填写）
考生编号
考生姓名


Section I Use of English
Directions:
Read the following text. Choose the best word( s) for each numbered blank and 
mark A, B, C or D on the ANSWER SHEET. (10 points)
Here's a common scenario that any number of entrepreneurs face today: 
you're the CEO of a small business, and though you're making a nice ] 
,
you need to find a way to take it to the next level. What you need to do is 2 
growth by establishing a growth team. A growth team is made up of members 
from different departments within your company, and it harnesses the power of 
collaboration to focus 3 on finding ways to grow.
Lefs look at a real-world 4. Prior to forming a growth team, the
software company BitTorrent had 50 employees working in the 5 
departments of engineering, marketing and product development. This brought 
them good results until 2012, when their growth plateaued. The 6 was that 
too many customers were using the basic, free version of their product. And 
7 improvements to the premium, paid version, few people were making the 
upgrade.
Things changed, 
8 
, when an innovative project marketing manager
came aboard, 9 a growth team and sparked the kind of 10 perspective 
they needed. By looking at engineering issues from a marketing point of view, it 
became clear that the 11 of upgrades wasn't due to a quality issue. Most 
customers were simply unaware of the premium version and what it offered.
Armed with this 12 , the marketing and engineering teams joined forces 
to raise awareness by prominently 13 the premium version to users of the free 
version. 14 , upgrades skyrocketed, and revenue increased by 92 percent.
But in order for your growth team to succeed, it needs to have a strong 
leader. It needs someone who can 15 the interdisciplinary team and keep 
them on course for improvement. This leader will 16 the target area, set 
clear goals and establish a time frame for the 17 of these goals.
The growth leader is also 18 for keeping the team focused on moving 
forward and steering them clear of distractions. 19 attractive new ideas can 
be distracting, the team leader must recognize when these ideas don't 20 the 
current goal and need to be put on the back burner.
英语（二）试题.I.（共15页）


1. A. purchase
B. profit
C. connection
D. bet
2. A. define
B. predict
C. prioritize
D. appreciate
3. A. exclusively
B. temporarily
C. potentially
D. initially
4. A. experiment
B. proposal
C. debate
D. example
5. A. identical
B. marginal
C. provisional
D. traditional
6. A. rumor
B. secret
C. myth
D. problem
7. A. despite
B. unlike
C. through
D. besides
8. A・ moreover
B. however
C. therefore
D. again
9. A. inspected
B. created
C. expanded
D. reformed
10. A. cultural
B. objective
C. fresh
D. personal
11. A. end
B. burden
C. lack
D. decrease
12. A. policy
B. suggestion
C. purpose
D. insight
13. A. contributing
B. allocating
C. promoting
D. transferring
14. A. As a result
B. At any rate
C. By the way
D. In a sense
15. A. unite
B. finance
C. follow
D. choose
16. A. share
B. identify
C. divide
D. broaden
17. A. announcement B. assessment
C. adjustment
D. accomplishment
18. A. famous
B. responsible
C. available
D. respectable
19. A. Before
B. Once
C. While
D. Unless
20. A. serve
B. limit
C. summarize
D. alter
Section 0 Reading Comprehension
Part A
Directions:
Read the following four texts. Answer the questions after each text by choosing
A, B, C or D. Mark your answers on the ANSWER SHEET. (40 points)
英语（二）试题・2.（共15页）


Text 1
In the quest for the perfect lawn, homeowners across the country are taking a 
shortcut一and it is the environment that is paying the price. About eight million 
square metres of plastic grass is sold each year but opposition has now spread to 
the highest gardening circles. The Chelsea Flower Show has banned fake grass 
from this year's event, declaring it to be not part of its ethos. The Royal 
Horticultural Society (RHS), which runs the annual show in west London, says 
it has introduced the ban because of the damage plastic grass does to the 
environment and biodiversity.
Ed Home, of the RHS, said: “We launched our sustainability strategy last 
year and fake grass is just not in line with our ethos and views on plastic. We 
recommend using real grass because of its environmental benefits, which include 
supporting wildlife, alleviating flooding and cooling the environment."
The RHS's decision comes as campaigners try to raise awareness of the 
problems fake grass causes. A Twitter account, which claims to "cut through the 
green-washv of artificial grass, already has more than 20,000 followers. It is 
trying to encourage people to sign two petitions, one calling for a ban on the sale 
of plastic grass and another calling for an Mecological damage" tax on such 
lawns. They have gathered 7,276 and 11,282 signatxires.
However, supporters of fake grass point out that there is also an 
environmental impact with natural lawns, which need mowing and therefore 
usually consume electricity or petrol. The industry also points out that real grass 
requires considerable amounts of water, weed killer or other treatments and that 
people who lay fake grass tend to use their garden more. The industry also claims 
that people who lay fake grass spend an average of £500 on trees or shrubs for 
their garden, which provides habitat for insects.
In response to another petition last year about banning fake lawns, which 
gathered 30,000 signatures, the government responded that it has " no plans to 
ban the use of artificial grass."
It added: M We prefer to help people and organizations make the right choice 
rather than legislating on such matters. However, the use of artificial grass must 
comply with the legal and policy safeguards in place to protect biodiversity and 
ensure sustainable drainage, while measures such as the strengthened biodiversity 
duty should serve to encourage public authorities to consider sustainable 
alternatives."
英语（二）试题.3.（共15页）


21. The RHS thinks that plastic grass.
A. is harmful to the environment
B. is a hot topic in gardening circles
C. is overpraised in the annual show
D. is ruining the view of west London
22. The petitions mentioned in Paragraph 3 reveal the campaigners'
A. disappointment with the RHS
B. resistance to fake grass use
C. anger over the proposed tax
D. concern about real grass supply
23. In Paragraph 4, supporters of fake grass point out.
A. the necessity to lower the costs of fake grass
B. the disadvantages of growing real grass
C. the way to take care of artificial lawns
D. the challenges of insect habitat protection
24. What would the government do with regard to artificial grass?
A. Urge legislation to restrict its use.
B. Take measures to guarantee its quality.
C. Remind its users to obey existing rules
D. Replace it with sustainable alternatives.
25. It can be learned from the text that fake grass.
A. is being improved continuously
B. has seen a market share decline
C. is becoming increasingly affordable
D. has been a controversial product
英语（二）试题.4.（共15页）


Text 2
.
It's easy to dismiss as absurd the Trump administration's ideas for plugging 
the chronic funding gap of our national parks. Can anyone really think ifs a good 
idea to allow Amazon deliveries to your tent in Yosemite or food trucks to line up 
under the redwood trees at Sequoia National Park?
But the administration is right about one thing: U.S. national parks are in 
crisis. Collectively, they have a maintenance backlog of more than $12 billion. 
Roads, trails, restrooms, visitor centers and other infrastructure are crumbling.
But privatizing and commercializing the campgrounds would not be a cure- 
all. Campgrounds are a tiny portion of the overall infrastructure backlog, and 
concessionaires in the parks hand over, on average, only about 5% of their revenues 
to the National Park Service. /
Moreover, increased privatization would certainly undercut one of the major 
reasons why 300 million visitors come to the parks each year: to enjoy nature and 
get a break from the commercial drumbeat that overwhelms daily life.
The real problem is that the parks have been chronically starved of funding. 
We conducted a comprehensive survey examining how U.S. residents view their 
national parks, and we found that Americans place a very high value on them— 
whether or not they actually visit them. The peer-reviewed economic survey of 
700 U. S. taxpayer%, conducted by mail and internet, also found that people 
would be willing to pay a significant amount of money to make sure the parks 
and their programs are keprtntact. Some 81% of respondents said they would 
be willing to pay additional taxes for the next 10 years to avoid any cuts to the 
national parks.
The national parks provide great value to U.S. residents both as places to 
escape and as symbols of nature. On top of this, they produce value from their 
extensive educational programs, their positive impact on the climate through 
carbon sequestration, their contribution to our cultural and artistic life, and of 
course through tourism. The parks also help keep America's past alive, working 
with thousands of local jurisdictions around the country to protect historical 
sites—including Ellis Island and Gettysburg—and to bring the stories of these 
places to life.
The parks do all this on a shoestring. Congress allocates only $3 billion a 
year to the national park system—an amount that has been flat since 2001 (in 
inflation-adjusted dollars) with the exception of a onetime boost in 2009 as part of 
the Obama stimulus package. Meanwhile, the number of annual visitors has 
increased by more than 50% since 1980, and now stands at 330 million visitors 
per year.
英语（二）试题.5.（共15页）


26. What problem are U.S. national parks faced with?
A. Decline of business profits.
B. Inadequate commercialization.
C. Lack of transportation services.
D. Poorly maintained infrastructure.
27. Increased privatization of the campgrounds may.
A. spoil visitor experience
B. help preserve nature
C. bring operational pressure
D. boost visits to parks
28. According to Paragraph 5, most respondents in the survey would
A. go to the national parks on a regular basis
B. advocate a bigger budget for the national parks
C. agree to pay extra fbr the national parks
D. support the national parks' recent reforms
29. The national parks are valuable in that they
A. lead the way in tourism
B. have historical significance
C. sponsor research on climate
D. provide an income for the locals
30. It can be concluded from the text that the national park system
A. is able to cope with staff shortages
B. is able to meet visitors* demands
C. is in need of a new pricing policy
D. is in need of a funding increase
英语（二）试题.6.（共15页）


Text 3
The Internet may be changing merely what we remember, not our capacity 
to do so, suggests Columbia University psychology professor Betsy Sparrow. In 
2011, Sparrow led a study in which participants were asked to record 40 factoids 
in a computer ("an ostrich's eye is bigger than its brain,n for example). Half of 
the participants were told the information would be erased, while the other half 
were told it would be saved. Guess what? The latter group made no effort to 
recall the information when quizzed on it later, because they knew they could 
find it on their computers. In the same study, a group was asked to remember 
both the information and the folders it was stored in. They didn't remember the 
information, but they remembered how to find the folders. In other words, 
human memory is not deteriorating but " adapting to new communications 
technology,M Sparrow says.
In a very practical way, the Internet is becoming an external hard drive for 
our memories, a process known as ucognitive offloading. M Traditionally, this 
role was fulfilled by data banks, libraries, and other humans. Your father may 
never remember birthdays because your mother does, for instance. Some worry 
that this is having a destructive effect on society, but Sparrow sees an upside. 
Perhaps, she suggests, the trend will change our approach to learning from a 
focus on individual facts and memorization to an emphasis on more conceptual 
thinking—something that is not available on the Internet. " I personally have 
never seen all that much intellectual value in memorizing things," Sparrow says, 
adding that we haven't lost our ability to do it.
Still other experts say it's too soon to understand how the Internet affects our 
brains. There is no experimental evidence showing that it interferes with our 
ability to focus, for instance, wrote psychologists Christopher Chabris and Daniel 
J. Simons. And surfing the web exercised the brain more than reading did among 
computer-savvy older adults in a 2008 study involving 24 participants at the Semel 
Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior at the University of California, 
Los Angeles.
MThere may be costs associated with our increased reliance on the Internet, 
but I'd have to imagine that overall the benefits are going to outweigh those 
costs,M observes psychology professor Benjamin Storm. "It seems pretty clear 
that memory is changing, but is it changing for the better? At this point, we 
don't know."
英语（二）试题.7.（共15页）


31. Sparrow's study shows that with the Internet, the human brain will
A. analyze information in detail
B. collect information efficiently
C. switch its focus of memory
D. extend its memory duration
32. The process of Mcognitive offloading.
A. helps us identify false information
B. keeps our memory from failing
C. enables us to classify trivial facts
D. lessens our memory burdens
33. Which of the following would Sparrow support about the Internet?
A. It may reform our learning approach.
B. It may impact our society negatively.
C. It may enhance our adaptability to technology.
D. It may interfere with our conceptual thinking.
34. It is indicated in Paragraph 3 that how the Internet affects our brains
A. requires further academic research
B. is most studied in older adults
C. is reflected in our reading speed
D. depends on our web-surfing habits
35. Neither Sparrow nor Storm would agree that.
A. our reliance on the Internet will be costly
B. the Internet is weakening our memory
C. memory exercise is a must for our brain
D. our ability to focus declines with age
英语（二）试题.8.（共15页）


Text 4
Teenagers are paradoxical. That's a mild and detached way of saying something 
that parents often express with considerably stronger language. But the paradox is 
scientific as well as personal. In adolescence, helpless and dependent children 
who have relied on grown-ups for just about everything become independent 
people who can take care of themselves and help each other. At the same time, 
once cheerful and compliant children become rebellious teenage risk-takers.
A new study published in the journal Child Development by Eveline Crone 
of the University of Leiden and colleagues, suggests that the positive and negative 
sides of teenagers go hand in hand. The study is part of a new wave of thinking 
about adolescence. For a long time, scientists and policy makers concentrated on 
the idea that teenagers were a problem that needed to be solved. The new work 
emphasizes that adolescence is a time of opportunity as well as risk.
The researchers studied “ prosocial" and rebellious traits in more than 200 
children and young adults, ranging from 11 to 28 years old. The participants 
filled out questionnaires about how often they did things that were altruistic and 
positive, like sacrificing their own interests to help a friend, or rebellious and 
negative, like getting drunk or staying out late.
Other studies have shown that rebellious behavior increases as you become a 
teenager and then fades away as you grow older. But the new study shows that, 
interestingly, the same pattern holds for prosocial behavior. Teenagers were more 
likely than younger children or adults to report that they did things like unselfishly 
help a friend.
Most significantly, there was a positive correlation between prosociality and 
rebelliousness. The teenagers who were more rebellious were also more likely to 
help others. The good and bad sides of adolescence seem to develop together.
Is there some common factor that underlies these apparently contradictory 
developments? One idea is that teenage behavior is related to what researchers 
call " reward sensitivity. " Decision-making always involves balancing rewards 
and risks, benefits and costs. MReward sensitivityM measures how much reward it 
takes to outweigh risk.
Teenagers are particularly sensitive to social rewards—winning the game, 
impressing a new friend, getting that boy to notice you. Reward sensitivity, like 
prosocial behavior and risk-taking, seems to go up in adolescence and then down 
again as we age. Somehow, when you hit 30, the chance that something exciting 
and new will happen at that party just doesn't seem to outweigh the effort of 
getting up off the couch.
英语（二）试题.9.（共15页）


36. According to Paragraph 1, cnildren growing into adolescence tend to
A. develop opposite personality traits
B. see the world in an unreasonable way
C. have fond memories of their past
D. show affection for their parents
37. It can be learned from Paragraph 2 that Crone's study.
A. explores teenagers' social responsibilities
B. examines teenagers' emotional problems
C. provides a new insight into adolescence
D. highlights negative adolescent behavior
38. What does Crone's study find about prosocial behavior?
A. It results from the wish to cooperate.
B. It is cultivated through education.
C. It is subject to family influence.
D. It tends to peak in adolescence.
39. It can be learned from the last two paragraphs that teenagers
A. overstress their influence on others
B. care a lot about social recognition
C. become anxious about their future
D. endeavor t6 live a joyful life
40. What is the text mainly about?
A. Why teenagers are self-contradictory.
B. Why teenagers are risk-sensitive.
C. How teenagers develop prosociality.
D. How teenagers become independent.
英语（二）试题.10.（共15页）


Part B
Directions:
Read the following text and match each of the numbered items in the left column 
to its corresponding information in the right column. There are two extra choices 
in the right column. Mark your answers on the ANSWER SHEET. (10 points)
Net-zero rules set to send cost of new homes and extensions soaring
New building regulations aimed at improving energy efficiency are set to 
increase the price of new homes, as well as those of extensions and loft 
conversions on existing ones.
The rules, which came into effect on Wednesday in England, are part of 
government plans to reduce the UK's carbon emissions to net zero by 2050. They 
set new standards for ventilation, energy efficiency and heating, and state that 
new residential buildings must have charging points for electric vehicles.
The moves are the most significant change to building regulations in years, 
and industry experts say they will inevitably lead to higher prices at a time when a 
shortage of materials and high labour costs are already driving up bills.
Brian Berry, chief executive of the Federation of Master Builders, says the 
measures will require new materials, testing methods, products and systems to be 
installed. "All this comes at an increased cost during a time when prices are 
already sky high. Inevitably, consumers will have to pay more," he says.
Gareth Belsham, of surveyors Naismiths, says people who are upgrading, or 
extending their home, will be directly affected. uThe biggest changes relate to 
heating and insulation,M he explains. u There are new rules concerning the 
aiuount of glazing used in extensions, and any new windows or doors must be 
highiy insulated."
Windows and doors will have to adhere to higher standards, while tliere are 
英语（二）试题.11. （ Mr 15页）


new limits on the amount of glazing you can have to reduce unwanted heat from 
the sun.
Thomas Goodman, of MyJobQuote, says this will bring in new restrict-Ous 
for extensions. M Glazing on windows, doors and roof lights must cover no more 
than 25% of the floor area to prevent heat loss," he says.
As the rules came into effect last Wednesday, property developers were 
rushing to file plans just before the deadline. Any plans submitted before that date 
are considered to be under the previous rules, and can go ahead as long as work 
starts before 15 June next year.
Builders which have costed projects, but have not filed the paperwork, may 
need to go back and submit fresh estimates, says Marcus Jefford of Build 
Aviator.
Materials prices are already up 25% in the last two years. How much over a ： 
prices will increase as a result of the rule changes is not cleai . Whilst admiral?!- 
in their intentions, they will add to the cost of housebuilding at a time when many 
already feel that they are priced out of homeownership, ” says Jonathan Rolande 
of the National Association of Property Buyers. "An avemge extension will 
probably see around £3,000 additional cost thanks to the new regs. ”
John Kelly, a construction lawyer at Freeths law firm. ； eSieves prices will 
eventually come down. But not in the immediate future. “A、the marketplace 
"t"—
adapts to the new' requirements, and the technologies that support them, the 
.必- 
/ 
- - 
, ■. 
,
scaling up of these technologies will eventually bring costs dov;n, but in the short 
term, we will all have to pay the price of the necessary transition. " he says.
However, the long-term effects of the changes will be more comfortable and 
energy-efficient homes, adds Andrew Mellor, of PRP architects. 44 Homeowners 
will probably recoup that cost over time in energy bill savings. It will ohvin»js!v 
be very volatile at the moment, but they will have that benefit »wer time. '
英语（二）试题・12.（共15页）


A. The rise of home prices is a temporary matter.
41. Brian Berry
___________________________________________________ |
B. Builders possibly need to submit new estimates of i 
their projects.
42. Gareth Belsham
C. There will be specific limits on home extensions to [ 
prevent heat loss. 
j
43. Marcus Jefford
D. The new rules will take home prices to an even I 
higher level.
44. John Kelly
E. Many people feel that home prices are already 
beyond what they can afford.
45. Andrew Mellor
F. The new rules will affect people whose home 
extensions include new windows or doors.
G. The rule changes will benefit homeowners eventually.
Section ID Translation
46. Directions:
Translate the following text into Chinese. Write your translation on the 
ANSWER SHEET. (15 points)
In the late 18th century, William Wordsworth became famous for his poems 
about nature. And he was one of the founders of a movement called 
Romanticism, which celebrated the wonders of the natural world.
Poetry is powerful. Its energy and rhythm can capture a reader, transport 
them to another world and make them see things differently. Through carefully 
selected words and phrases, poems can be dramatic, funny, beautiful, moving 
and inspiring.
No one knows for sure when poetry began but it has been around for 
thousands of years, even before people could write. It was a way to tell stories 
and pass down history. It is closely related to song and even when written it is 
usually created to be performed out loud. Poems really come to life when they are 
recited. This can also help with understanding them too, because the rhythm and 
sounds of the words become clearer.
英语（二）试题.13.（共15页）


Section IV Writing
Part A
47. Directions:
An art exhibition and a robot show are to be held on Sunday, and your friend 
David asks you which one he should go to. Write him an email to
1) make a suggestion, and
2) give your reason(s).
Write your answer in about 100 words on the ANSWER SHEET.
Do not use your own name in your email. Use “Li Ming" instead. (10 points)
Part B
48. Directions:
Write an essay based on the chart below. In your writing, you should
1) interpret the chart, and
2) give your comments.
You should write about 150 words on the ANSWER SHEET. (15 points)
2012-2021年我国居民健康素养水平
*健康素养（health literacy）是指个人获取和理解基本健康信息和服务，并运用这些信息和服 
务作出正确决策，以维护和促进自身健康的能力。健康素养水平指具备基本健康素养的 
人在总人群（15—69岁城乡居民）中所占的比例。
英语（二）试题.14.（共15页）


2023年考研英语（二）真题答案速查表
1 ~ 5
BCADD
6 ~10
DABBC
11 ~15
CDCAA
16-20
BDBCA
21 ~25
ABBCD
26-30
DACBD
31 ~35
CDAAB
36~40
ACDBA
41 ~45
DFBAG
Section III Translation
18世纪末，威廉•华兹华斯因其关于自然的诗歌而广为人知。同时，他还是浪漫主义运 
动的创始人之一，这一运动歌颂了自然界的奇妙之处。
诗歌是富有力量的。诗歌的能量和节奏能够吸引读者，将读者带入另一个世界,并让他 
们以不同的方式看待事物。通过精心选择的词和短语,诗歌可以是戏剧性的、诙谐有趣的、意 
境优美的、动人心弦的和鼓舞人心的。
没有人确切地知道诗歌出现的时间，但它已经存在数千年了，甚至在人们会书写之前就 
已经出现了。诗歌是人们讲述故事和传承历史的一种方式。诗歌与歌曲是密切相关的，甚至 
被写下时,就通常是为了出声表演而创作的。当诗歌被朗诵出来，它们才真正地生动鲜活了 
起来。这也能帮助人们理解诗歌,原因是词的节奏和发音变得更加清晰了。
英语（二）试题,15.（共15页）
