绝密★启用前 
 
 
 
1999年全国硕士研究生招生考试 
 
英语 
（科目代码：201） 
 
 
☆考生注意事项☆ 
 
 
1. 答题前，考生须在试题册指定位置上填写考生编号和考生姓名；在答题卡指定位
置上填写报考单位、考生姓名和考生编号，并涂写考生编号信息点。 
2. 考生须把试题册上的“试卷条形码”粘贴条取下，粘贴在答题卡的“试卷条形码
粘贴位置”框中。不按规定粘贴条形码而影响评卷结果的，责任由考生自负。 
3. 选择题的答案必须涂写在答题卡相应题号的选项上，非选择题的答案必须书写在
答题卡指定位置的边框区域内。超出答题区域书写的答案无效；在草稿纸、试题
册上答题无效。 
4. 填（书）写部分必须使用黑色字迹签字笔书写，字迹工整、笔迹清楚；涂写部分 
必须使用 2B 铅笔填涂。 
5. 
考试结束，将答题卡和试题册按规定交回。 
 
（以下信息考生必须认真填写） 
 
 
考生编号 
考生姓名 


- 1 - 
 
 
 
Section I 
Use of 
English 
 
Directions: 
 
For each numbered blank in the following passage, there are four choices marked [A], [B], [C], and 
[D]. Choose the best one and mark your answer on ANSWER SHEET 1 by blackening the 
corresponding letter in the brackets with a pencil. (10 points) 
Industrial safety does not just happen. Companies 1 low accident rates plan their safety 
programs, work hard to organize them, and continue working to keep them_2_and active. When the 
work is well done, a 3  of accident free operations is established 4 time lost due to injuries is 
kept at a minimum. 
Successful safety programs may 5_ greatly in the emphasis placed on certain aspects of the 
program. Some place great emphasis on mechanical guarding. Others stress safe work practices by_6 
rules or regulations. 7 others depend on an emotional appeal to the worker. But, there are certain 
basic ideas that must be used in every program if maximum results are to be obtained. 
There can be no question about the value of a safety program. From a financial standpoint alone, 
safety 8 . The fewer the injury 9 , the better the workman's insurance rate. This may mean the 
difference between operating at 10 or at a loss. 
1. [AJ 
at 
[BJ 
m 
[CJ 
on 
[DJ 
with 
2. [AJ 
alive 
 [BJ  vivid 
[CJ  mobile 
[DJ 
diverse 
regulation 
[BJ 
climate 
[CJ 
circumstance 
[DJ  requirement 
where 
 [BJ  how 
[CJ 
what 
[DJ  unless 
alter 
[BJ 
differ 
[CJ 
shift 
[DJ 
distinguish 
6. [AJ constituting 
[BJ  aggravating [CJ 
observing 
[DJ justifying 
Some 
[BJ 
Many 
[CJ 
Even 
[DJ 
Still 
8. [AJ comes off 
[BJ  turns up 
[CJ 
pays off 
[DJ 
holds up 
claims 
[BJ 
reports 
[CJ 
declarations 
[DJ 
proclamations 
10. [AJ 
an advantage [BJ 
a benefit 
[CJ 
an interest 
[DJ 
a profit 
Section II Reading Comprehension 
 
PartA 
Directions: 
Each of the passages below is followed by some questions. For each question there are four answers 
marked [A], [B], [C] and [D]. Read the passages carefully and choose the best answer to each of the 
questions. Then mark your answer on the ANSWER SHEET 1 by blackening the corresponding letter 
in the brackets. (40 points) 


- 2 - 
 
Text 1 
It's a rough world out there. Step outside and you could break a leg slipping on your doormat. 
Light up the stove and you could bum down the house. Luckily, if the doormat or stove failed to warn 
of coming disaster, a successful lawsuit might compensate you for your troubles. Or so the thinking 
has gone since the early 1980s, when juries began holding more companies liable for their customers' 
misfortunes. 
Feeling threatened, compames responded by writing ever longer wammg labels, trying to 
anticipate every possible accident. Today, stepladders carry labels several inches long that warn, 
among other things, that you might-surprise!-fall off. The label on a child's Batman cape cautions 
that the toy "does not enable user to fly". 
While warnings are often appropriate and necessary-the dangers of drug interactions, for 
example-and many are required by state or federal regulations, it isn't clear that they actually protect 
the manufacturers and sellers from liability if a customer is injured. About 50 percent of the companies 
lose when injured customers take them to court. 
Now the tide appears to be turning. As personal injury claims continue as before, some courts are 
beginning to side with defendants, especially in cases where a warning label probably wouldn't have 
changed anything. In May, Julie Nimmons, president of Schutt Sports in Illinois, successfully fought a 
lawsuit involving a football player who was paralyzed in a game while wearing a Schutt helmet. 
"We're really sorry he has become paralyzed, but helmets aren't designed to prevent those kinds of 
injuries, " says Nimmons. The jury agreed that the nature of the game, not the helmet, was the reason 
for the athlete's injury. At the same time, the American Law Institute-a group of judges, lawyers, and 
academics whose recommendations carry substantial weight-issued new guidelines for tort law 
stating that companies need not warn customers of obvious dangers or bombard them with a lengthy 
list of possible ones. "Important information can get buried in a sea of trivialities, " says a law 
professor at Cornell Law School who helped draft the new guidelines. If the moderate end of the legal 
community has its way, the information on products might actually be provided for the benefit of 
customers and not as protection against legal liability. 


- 3 - 
 
11. What were things like in 1980s when accidents happened? 
[AJ Customers might be relieved of their disasters through lawsuits. 
[BJ Injured customers could expect protection from the legal system. 
[CJ Companies would avoid being sued by providing new warnings. 
[DJ Juries tended to find fault with the compensations companies promised. 
 
 
12. Manufacturers as mentioned in the passage tend to 
[AJ satisfy customers by writing long warnings on products. 
[BJ become honest in describing the inadequacies of their products. 
[CJ make the best use of labels to avoid legal liability. 
[DJ feel obliged to view customers' safety as their first concern. 
 
 
13. The case of Schutt helmet demonstrated that  
 
[AJ some injury claims were no longer supported by law. 
[BJ helmets were not designed to prevent injuries. 
[CJ product labels would eventually be discarded. 
[DJ some sports games might lose popularity with athletes. 
 
 
14. The author's attitude towards the issue seems to be 
[AJ biased 
[BJ indifferent 
[CJ puzzling 
[DJ objective 
---- 


- 4 - 
 
Text 2 
In the first year or so of Web business, most of the action has revolved around efforts to tap the 
consumer market. More recently, as the Web proved to be more than a fashion, companies have started 
to buy and sell products and services with one another. Such business to business sales make sense 
because business people typically know what product they're looking for. 
Nonetheless, many companies still hesitate to use the Web because of doubts about its reliability. 
"Businesses need to feel they can trust the pathway between them and the supplier," says senior 
analyst Blane Erwin of Forrester Research. Some companies are limiting the risk by conducting online 
transactions only with established business partners who are given access to the company's private 
intranet. 
Another major shift in the model for Internet commerce concerns the technology available for 
marketing. Until recently, Internet marketing activities have focused on strategies to "pull" customers 
into sites. In the past year, however, software companies have developed tools that allow companies to 
"push" information directly out to consumers, transmitting marketing messages directly to targeted 
customers. Most notably, the Pointcast Network uses a screen saver to deliver a continually updated 
stream of news and advertisements to subscribers' computer monitors. Subscribers can customize the 
information they want to receive and proceed directly to a company's Web site. Companies such as 
Virtual Vineyards are already starting to use similar technologies to push messages to customers about 
special sales, product offerings, or other events. But push technology has earned the contempt of many 
Web users. Online culture thinks highly of the notion that the information flowing onto the screen 
comes there by specific request. Once commercial promotion begins to fill the screen uninvited, the 
distinction between the Web and television fades. That's a prospect that horrifies Net purists. 
But it is hardly inevitable that companies on the Web will need to resort to push strategies to 
make money. The examples of Virtual Vineyards, Amazon .corn, and other pioneers show that a Web 
site selling the right kind of products with the right mix of interactivity, hospitality, and security will 
attract online customers. And the cost of computing power continues to free fall, which is a good sign 
for any enterprise setting up shop in silicon. People looking back 5 or 10 years from now may well 
wonder why so few companies took the online plunge. 


- 5 - 
 
15. We learn from the beginning of the passage that Web business  
 
[A] has been striving to expand its market. 
[B] intended to follow a fanciful fashion. 
[C] tried but in vain to control the market. 
[D] has been booming for one year or so. 
 
16. Speaking of the online technology available for marketing, the author implies that 
 
[A] the technology is popular with many Web users. 
[B] businesses have faith in the reliability of online transactions. 
[C] there is a radical change in strategy. 
[D] it is accessible limitedly to established partners. 
 
17. In the view of Net purists,  
 
[A] there should be no marketing messages in online culture. 
[B] money making should be given priority to on the Web. 
[C] the Web should be able to function as the television set. 
[D] there should be no online commercial information without requests. 
 
18. We learn from the last paragraph that  
 
[A] pushing information on the Web is essential to Internet commerce. 
[B] interactivity, hospitality and security are important to online customers. 
[C] leading companies began to take the online plunge decades ago. 
[D] setting up shops in silicon is independent of the cost of computing power. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
微信公众号：神仙小土豆 全年资料免费分享


- 6 - 
 
Text 3 
An invisible border divides those arguing for computers in the classroom on the behalf of students' 
career prospects and those arguing for computers in the classroom for broader reasons of radical 
educational reform. Very few writers on the subject have explored this distinction-indeed, 
contradiction-which goes to the heart of what is wrong with the campaign to put computers in the 
classroom. 
An education that aims at getting a student a certain kind of job is a technical education, justified 
for reasons radically different from why education is universally required by law. It is not simply to 
raise everyone's job prospects that all children are legally required to attend school into their teens. 
Rather, we have a certain conception of the American citizen, a character who is incomplete if he 
cannot competently assess how his livelihood and happiness are affected by things outside of himself. 
But this was not always the case; before it was legally required for all children to attend school until 
a certain age, it was widely accepted that some were just not equipped by nature to pursue this 
kind of education. With optimism characteristic of all industrialized countries, we came to accept 
that everyone is fit to be educated.  Computer-education advocates forsake this optimistic 
notion for a pessimism that betrays their otherwise cheery outlook. Banking on the confusion between 
educational and vocational reasons for bringing computers into schools, computered advocates often 
emphasize the job prospects of graduates over their educational achievement. 
There are some good arguments for a technical education given the right kind of student. Many 
European schools introduce the concept of professional training early on in order to make sure children 
are properly equipped for the professions they want to join. It is, however, presumptuous to insist that 
there will only be so many jobs for so many scientists, so many businessmen, so many accountants. 
Besides, this is unlikely to produce the needed number of every kind of professional in a country as 
large as ours and where the economy is spread over so many states and involves so many international 
corporations. 
But, for a small group of students, professional training might be the way to go smce 
well-developed skills, all other factors being equal, can be the difference between having a job and not. 
Of course, the basics of using any computer these days are very simple. It does not take a lifelong 
acquaintance to pick up various software programs. If one wanted to become a computer engineer, that 
is, of course, an entirely different story. Basic computer skills take-at the very longest-a couple of 
months to learn. In any case, basic computer skills are only complementary to the host of real skills 
that are necessary to becoming any kind of professional. It should be observed, of course, that no 
school, vocational or not, is helped by a confusion over its purpose. 


- 7 - 
 
19. The author thinks the present rush to put computers in the classroom is___ 
[A] far reaching 
[BJ dubiously oriented 
[C] self contradictory 
[D] radically reformatory 
 
20. The belief that education is indispensable to all children 
 
[A] is indicative of a pessimism in disguise. 
[B] came into being along with the arrival of computers. 
[C] is deeply rooted in the minds of computer-ed advocates. 
[D] originated from the optimistic attitude of industrialized countries. 
 
 
21. It could be inferred from the passage that in the author's country the European model 
of professional training is  
 
[A] dependent upon the starting age of candidates. 
[B] worth trying in various social sections. 
[C] of little practical value. 
[D] attractive to every kind of professional. 
 
22. According to the author, basic computer skills should be  ____ 
[A] included as an auxiliary course in school. 
[B] highlighted in acquisition of professional qualifications. 
[C] mastered through a life-long course. 
[D] equally emphasized by any school, vocational or otherwise. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
微信公众号：神仙小土豆 全年资料免费分享


- 8 - 
 
Text 4 
When a Scottish research team startled the world by revealing 3 months ago that it had cloned an 
adult sheep, President Clinton moved swiftly. Declaring that he was opposed to using this unusual 
animal husbandry technique to clone humans, he ordered that federal funds not be used for such an 
experiment-although no one had proposed to do so-and asked an independent panel of experts 
chaired by Princeton President Harold Shapiro to report back to the White House in 90 days with 
recommendations for a national policy on human cloning. That group - the National Bioethics 
Advisory Commission (NBAC)- has been working feverishly to put its wisdom on paper, and at a 
meeting on 17 May, members agreed on a near final draft of their recommendations. 
NBAC will ask that Clinton ' s 90 day ban on federal funds for human cloning be extended 
indefinitely, and possibly that it be made law. But NBAC members are planning to word the 
recommendation narrowly to avoid new restrictions on research that involves the cloning of human 
DNA or cells-routine in molecular biology. The panel has not yet reached agreement on a crucial 
question, however, whether to recommend legislation that would make it a crime for private funding to 
be used for human cloning. 
In a draft preface to the recommendations, discussed at the 17 May meeting, Shapiro suggested 
that the panel had found a broad consensus that it would be "morally unacceptable to attempt to create 
a human child by adult nuclear cloning." Shapiro explained during the meeting that the moral doubt 
stems mainly from fears about the risk to the health of the child. The panel then informally accepted 
several general conclusions, although some details have not been settled. 
NBAC plans to call for a continued ban on federal government funding for any attempt to clone 
body cell nuclei to create a child. Because current federal law already forbids the use of federal funds 
to create embryos (the earliest stage of human offspring before birth) for research or to knowingly 
endanger an embryo's life, NBAC will remain silent on embryo research. 
NBAC members also indicated that they would appeal to privately funded researchers and clinics 
not to try to clone humans by body cell nuclear transfer. But they were divided on whether to go 
further by calling for a federal law that would impose a complete ban on human cloning. Shapiro and 
most members favored an appeal for such legislation, but in a phone interview, he said this issue was 
still "up in the air". 


- 9 - 
 
23. We can learn from the first paragraph that  
 
[A] federal funds have been used in a project to clone humans. 
[B] the White House responded strongly to the news of cloning. 
[C] NBAC was authorized to control the misuse of cloning technique. 
[D] the White House has got the panel's recommendations on cloning. 
 
 
24. The panel agreed on all of the following except that  
 
[A] the ban on federal funds for human cloning should be made a law. 
[B] the cloning of human DNA is not to be put under more control. 
[C] it is criminal to use private funding for human cloning. 
[D] it would be against ethical values to clone a human being. 
 
 
25. NBAC will leave the issue of embryo research undiscussed because 
[A] embryo research is just a current development of cloning. 
[B] the health of the child is not the main concern of embryo research. 
[C] an embryo's life will not be endangered in embryo research. 
[D] the issue is explicitly stated and settled in the law. 
 
 
26. It can be inferred from the last paragraph that  
 
[A] some NBAC members hesitate to ban human cloning completely. 
[B] a law banning human cloning is to be passed in no time. 
[C] privately funded researchers will respond positively to NBAC's appeal . 
[D] the issue of human cloning will soon be settled. 


- 10 - 
 
Texts 
Science, in practice, depends far less on the experiments it prepares than on the preparedness of 
the minds of the men who watch the experiments. Sir Isaac Newton supposedly discovered gravity 
through the fall of an apple. Apples had been falling in many places for centuries and thousands of 
people had seen them fall. But Newton for years had been curious about the cause of the orbital motion 
of the moon and planets. What kept them in place? Why didn't they fall out of the sky? The fact that 
the apple fell down toward the earth and not up into the tree answered the question he had been asking 
himself about those larger fruits of the heavens, the moon and the planets. 
How many men would have considered the possibility of an apple falling up into the tree? 
Newton did because he was not trying to predict anything. He was just wondering. His mind was ready 
for the unpredictable. Unpredictability is part of the essential nature of research. If you don't have 
unpredictable things, you don't have research. Scientists tend to forget this when writing their cut and 
dried reports for the technical journals, but history is filled with examples of it. 
In talking to some scientists, particularly younger ones, you might gather the impression that they 
find the "scientific method" a substitute for imaginative thought. I've attended research conferences 
where a scientist has been asked what he thinks about the advisability of continuing a certain 
experiment. The scientist has frowned, looked at the graphs, and said, "the data are still inconclusive." 
"We know that," the men from the budget office have said, "but what do you think? Is it worthwhile 
going on? What do you think we might expect?" The scientist has been shocked at having even been 
asked to speculate. 
What this amounts to, of course, is that the scientist has become the victim of his own writings. 
He has put forward unquestioned claims so consistently that he not only believes them himself, but has 
convinced industrial and business management that they are true. If experiments are planned and 
carried out according to plan as faithfully as the reports in the science journals indicate, then it is 
perfectly logical for management to expect research to produce results measurable in dollars and cents. 
It is entirely reasonable for auditors to believe that scientists who know exactly where they are going 
and how they will get there should not be distracted by the necessity of keeping one eye on the cash 
register while the other eye is on the microscope. Nor, if regularity and conformity to a standard 
pattern are as desirable to the scientist as the writing of his papers would appear to reflect, is 
management to be blamed for discriminating against the "odd balls" among researchers in favor of 
more conventional thinkers who "work well with the team". 


- 11 - 
 
27. The author wants to prove with the example oflsaac Newton that  
 
[AJ inquiring minds are more important than scientific experiments 
[BJ science advances when fruitful researches are conducted 
[CJ scientists seldom forget the essential nature of research 
[DJ unpredictability weighs less than prediction in scientific research 
 
 
28. The author asserts that scientists  
 
[AJ shouldn't replace "scientific method" with imaginative thought 
[BJ shouldn't neglect to speculate on unpredictable things 
[CJ should write more concise reports for technical journals 
[DJ should be confident about their research findings 
 
29. It seems that some young scientists 
[AJ have a keen interest in prediction 
[BJ often speculate on the future 
[CJ think highly of creative thinking 
[DJ stick to "scientific method" 
 
30. The author implies that the results of scientific research  
 
[AJ may not be as profitable as they are expected 
[BJ can be measured in dollars and cents 
[CJ rely on conformity to a standard pattern 
[DJ are mostly underestimated by management 


PartB 
Directions: 
Read the following passage carefully and then translate the underlined sentences into Chinese. Your 
translation must be written clearly on the ANSWER SHEET 2. (15 points) 
 
 
31) 
) While there are almost as many definitions of history as there are historians, modem 
practice most closely conforms to one that sees history as the attempt to recreate and explain the 
significant events of the past. Caught in the web of its own time and place, each generation of 
historians determines anew what is significant for it in the past. In this search the evidence found 
is always incomplete and scattered; it is also frequently partial or partisan. The irony of the 
historian's craft is that its practitioners always know that their efforts are but contributions to an 
unending process. 
32) 
) Interest in historical methods has arisen less through external challenge to the validit y 
of histor y as an intellectual discipline and more from internal quarrels among historians 
themselves. While history once revered its affinity to literature and philosophy, the emerging 
social sciences seemed to afford greater opportunities for asking new questions and providing 
rewarding approaches to an understanding of the past. Social science methodologies had to be 
adapted to a discipline governed by the primacy of historical sources rather than the imperatives of 
the contemporary world. 33 ) During this transfer, traditional historical methods were augmented by 
additional methodologies designed to interpret the new forms of evidence in the historical study. 
Methodology is a term that remains inherently ambiguous in the historical profession. 34) There 
is no agreement whether methodology refers to the concepts peculiar to historical work in general or to 
the research techniques appropriate to the various branches of historical inquiry. Historians, especially 
those so blinded by their research interests that they have been accused of "tunnel method," frequently 
fall victim to the "technical fallacy." Also common in the natural sciences, the technicist fallacy 
mistakenly identifies the discipline as a whole with certain parts of its technical implementation. 
35) It applies equally to traditional historians who view history as only the external and internal 
criticism of sources, and to social science historians who equate their activity with specific techniques. 
 
 
 
 
 


- 12 - 


  
 
微信公众号：神仙小土豆 全年资料免费分享
:..- 
.. 
Section III Writing 
 
36. Directions: 
A. Study the following graphs carefully and write an essay in at less than 150 words. 
B. Your essay must be written clearly on the ANSWER SHEET 2. 
C. Your essay should cover three points: 
a. effect of the country's growing human population on its wildlife, b. possible reasons for the 
effect, c. your suggestion for wildlife protection 
, 
,I. 
 .., 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 13 - 
 
