绝密★启用前
2022年全国硕士研究生招生考试
英语（二）
（科目代码：204）
☆考生注意事项少
1. 答题前，考生须在试题册指定位置上填写考生编号和考生姓名；在答题卡指 
定位置上填写报考单位、考生姓名和考生编号，并涂写考生编号信息点。
2. 考生须把试题册上的“试卷条形码”粘贴条取下，粘贴在答题卡的“试卷 
条形码粘贴位置”框中。不按规定粘贴条形码而影响评卷结果的，责任由 
考生自负。
3. 选择题的答案必须涂写在答题卡相应题号的选项上，非选择题的答案必须 
书写在答题卡指定位置的边框区域内。超出答题区域书写的答案无效；在 
草稿纸、试题册上答题无效。
4. 填（书）写部分必须使用黑色字迹签字笔书写，字迹工整、笔迹清楚；涂 
写部分必须使用2B铅笔填涂。
5. 考试结束，将答题卡和试题册按规定交回。
（以下信息考生必须认真填写）


Section I Use of English
Directions:
Read the following text. Choose the best word( s) for each numbered blank and 
mark A, B, C or D on the ANSWER SHEET. (10 points)
Harlan Coben believes that if you're a writer, you511 find the time； and that 
if you can't find the time, then writing isn't a priority and you5re not a writer. 
For him, writing is a ] job一a job like any other. He has 2 it with 
plumbing, pointing out that a plumber doesn't wake up and say that he can't work 
with pipes today.
3 
, like most writers these days, you're holding down a job to pay the
bills, it's not 4 to find the time to write. But it's not impossible. It requires 
determination and single-mindedness. _5_ that most bestselling authors began 
writing when they were doing other things to earn a living. And today, even 
writers who are fairly 6 often have to do other work to 7 their writing 
income.
As Harlan Coben has suggested, ifs a 8 of priorities. To make writing 
a priority, you511 have to 9 some of your day-to-day activities and some 
things you really enjoy. Depending on your 10 and your lifestyle, that might 
mean spending less time watching television or listening to music, though some 
people can write 11 they listen to music. You might have to 12 the 
amount of exercise or sport you do. You'll have to make social media an 13 
activity rather than a daily, time-consuming 14 
. There511 probably have to be
less socializing with your friends and less time with your family. It's a 15 
learning curve, and it won't always make you popular.
There's just one thing you should try to keep at least some time for, 16 
your writing—and that's reading. Any writer needs to read as much and as widely 
as they can； it's the one 17 
supporter—something you can't do without.
Time is finite. The older you get, the 18 it seems to go. We need to 
use it as carefully and as 19 as we can. That means prioritising our activities 
so that we spend most time on the things we really want to do. If you're a writer, 
that means一 20 —writing.
英语（二）试题.1.（共15页）


1. A. difficult
B. normal
C. steady
D. pleasant
2. A. combined
B. compared
C. confused
D. confronted
3. A. If
B. Though
C. Once
D. Unless
4. A. enough
B. strange
C. wrong
D. easy
5. A. Accept
B. Explain
C. Remember
D. Suppose
6. A. well-known
B. well-advised
C. well-informed
D. well-chosen
7. A. donate
B. generate
C. supplement
D. calculate
8. A. cause
B. purpose
C. question
D. condition
9. A. highlight
B. sacrifice
C. continue
D. explore
10. A. relations
B. interests
C. memories
D. skills
11. A. until
B. because
C. while
D. before
12. A. put up with
B. make up for
C. hang on to
D. cut down on
13. A. intelligent
B. occasional
C. intensive
D. emotional
14. A. habit
B. test
C. decision
D. plan
15. A. tough
B. gentle
C. rapid
D. funny
16. A. in place of
B. in charge of
C. in response to
D. in addition to
17. A. indispensable
B. innovative
C. invisible
D. instant
18. A. duller
B. harder
C. quieter
D. quicker
19. A. peacefully
B. generously
C. productively
D. gratefully
20. A. at most
B. in turn
C. on average
D. above all
Section U Reading Comprehension
Part A
Directions:
Read the following four texts. Answer the questions after each text by choosing
A, B, C or D. Mark your answers on the ANSWER SHEET. (40 points)
英语（二）试题.2.（共15页）


Text 1
On a recent sunny day, 13,000 chickens roam over Larry Brown's 40 
windswept acres in Shiner, Texas. Some rest in the shade of a parked car. Others 
drink water with the cows. This all seems random, but it's by design, part of 
what the $ 6.1 billion U. S. egg industry bets will be its next big thing: climate­
friendly eggs.
These eggs, which are making their debut now on shelves for as much as 
$ 8 a dozen, are still labeled organic and animal-friendly, but they're also from 
birds that live on farms using regenerative agriculture—special techniques to 
cultivate rich soils that can trap greenhouse gases. Such eggs could be marketed 
as helping to fight climate change.
“I'm excited about our progress," says Brown, who harvests eggs for 
Denver-based NestFresh Eggs and is adding more cover crops that draw worms 
and crickets for the chickens to eat. The birds5 waste then fertilizes fields. Such 
improvements " allow our hens to forage for higher-quality natural feed that will 
be good for the land, the hens, and the eggs that we supply to our customers. ”
The egg industry's push is the first major test of whether animal products 
from regenerative farms can become the next premium offering. In barely more 
than a decade, organic eggs went from being dismissed as a niche product in 
natural foods stores to being sold at Walmart. More recently there were similar 
doubts about probiotics and plant-based meats, but both have exploded into major 
supermarket categories. If the sustainable-egg rollout is successful, it could open 
the floodgates for regenerative beef, broccoli, and beyond.
Regenerative products could be a hard sell, because the concept is tough to 
define quickly, says Julie Stanton, associate professor of agricultural economics 
at Pennsylvania State University Brandywine. Such farming also brings minimal, 
if any, improvement to the food products (though some producers say their eggs 
have more protein).
The industry is betting that the same consumers paying more for premium 
attributes such as free-range, non-GMO, and pasture-raised eggs will embrace 
sustainability. Surveys show that younger generations are more concerned about 
climate change, and some of the success of plant-based meat can be chalked up to 
shoppers wanting to signal their desire to protect the environment. Young adults 
"really care about the planet," says John Brunnquell, president of Egg 
Innovations. u They are absolutely altering the food chain beyond what I think 
even they understand what they5re doing."
英语（二）试题.3 •（共15页）


21. The climate-friendly eggs are produced_____ .
A. at a considerably low cost
B. at the demand of regular shoppers
C. as a replacement for organic eggs
D. on specially designed farms
22. Larry Brown is excited about his progress in______.
A. reducing the damage of worms
B. accelerating the disposal of waste
C. creating a sustainable system
D. attracting customers to his products
23. The example of organic eggs is used in Paragraph 4 to suggest
A. the doubts over natural foods
B. the setbacks in the egg industry
C. the potential of regenerative products
D. the promotional success of supermarkets
24. It can be learned from the last paragraph that young people__
A. are reluctant to change their diet
B. are likely to buy climate-friendly eggs
C. are curious about new foods
D. are amazed at agriculture advances
25. John Brunnquell would disagree with Julie Stanton over
products5 _____ .
A. market prospects
B. standard definition
C. nutritional value
D. moral implications
regenerative
英语（二）试题.4.（共15页）


Text 2
More Americans are opting to work well into retirement, a growing trend 
that threatens to upend the old workforce model.
One in three Americans who are at least 40 have or plan to have a job in 
retirement to prepare for a longer life, according to a survey conducted by Harris 
Poll for TD Ameritrade. Even more surprising is that more than half of 
"unretirees ” 一those who plan to work in retirement or went back to work after 
retiring—said they would be employed in their later years even if they had enough 
money to settle down, the survey showed.
Financial needs aren't the only culprit for the " unretirement” trend. Other 
reasons, according to the study, include personal fulfillment such as staying 
mentally fit, preventing boredom or avoiding depression.
"The concept of retirement is evolving,M said Christine Russell, senior 
manager of retirement at TD Ameritrade. "It's not just about finances. The value 
of work is also driving folks to continue working past retirement. ”
One reason for the change in retirement patterns: Americans are living 
longer. Because of longer life spans, Americans are also boosting their savings to 
preserve their nest eggs, the TD Ameritrade study showed, which surveyed 2,000 
adults between 40 to 79. Six in 10 " unretirees" are increasing their savings in 
anticipation of a longer life, according to the survey. Among the most popular 
ways they are doing this, the company said, is by reducing their overall 
expenses, securing life insurance or maximizing their contributions to retirement 
accounts.
Unfortunately, many people who are opting to work in retirement are 
preparing to do so because they are worried about making ends meet in their later 
years, said Brent Weiss, a co-founder at Baltimore-based financial-planning firm 
Facet Wealth. He suggested that preretirees should speak with a financial adviser 
to set long-term financial goals.
"The most challenging moments in life are getting married, starting a family 
and ultimately retiring,Weiss said. "It's not just a financial decision, but an 
emotional one. Many people believe they can't retire."
英语（二）试题.5.（共15页）


26. The survey conducted by Harris Poll indicates that_____ .
A. over half of the retirees are physically fit for work
B. the old workforce is as active as the younger one
C. one in three Americans enjoy earlier retirement
D. more Americans are willing to work in retirement
27. It can be inferred from Paragraph 3 that Americans tend to think that
A. retirement may cause problems for them
B. boredom can be relieved after retirement
C. the mental health of retirees is overlooked
D. 
unretirementM contributes to the economy
28. Retirement patterns are changing partly due to_____ .
A. labor shortage
B. population growth
C. longer life expectancy
D. rising living costs
29. Many " unretirees” are increasing their savings by 
.
A. investing more in stocks
B. taking up odd jobs
C. getting well-paid work
D. spending less
30. With regard to retirement, Brent Weiss thinks that many people are
A. unprepared
B. unafraid
C. disappointed
D. enthusiastic
英语（二）试题.6.（共15页）


Text 3
We have all encountered them, in both our personal and professional lives. 
Think about the times you felt tricked or frustrated by a membership or 
subscription that had a seamless sign-up process but was later difficult to cancel. 
Something that should be simple and transparent can be complicated, 
intentionally or unintentionally, in ways that impair consumer choice. These are 
examples of dark patterns.
First coined in 2010 by user experience expert Harry Brignull, u dark 
patterns" is a catch-all term for practices that manipulate user interfaces to 
influence the decision-making ability of users. Brignull identifies 12 types of 
common dark patterns, ranging from misdirection and hidden costs to " roach 
motel," where a user experience seems easy and intuitive at the start, but turns 
difficult when the user tries to get out.
In a 2019 study of 53 ,000 product pages and 11,000 websites, researchers 
found that about one in 10 employs these design practices. Though widely 
prevalent, the concept of dark patterns is still not well understood. Business and 
nonprofit leaders should be aware of dark patterns and try to avoid the gray areas 
they engender.
Where is the line between ethical, persuasive design and dark patterns? 
Businesses should engage in conversations with IT, compliance, risk, and legal 
teams to review their privacy policy, and include in the discussion the customer/ 
user experience designers and coders responsible for the company's user interface, 
as well as the marketers and advertisers responsible for sign-ups, checkout 
baskets, pricing, and promotions. Any or all these teams can play a role in 
creating or avoiding u digital deception. ”
Lawmakers and regulators are slowly starting to address the ambiguity 
around dark patterns, most recently at the state level. In March, the California 
Attorney General announced the approval of additional regulations under the 
California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) that " ensure that consumers will not 
be confused or misled when seeking to exercise their data privacy rights. " The 
regulations aim to ban dark patterns—this means prohibiting companies from 
using " confusing language or unnecessary steps such as forcing them to click 
through multiple screens or listen to reasons why they shouldn't opt out."
As more states consider promulgating additional regulations, there is a need 
for greater accountability from within the business community. Dark patterns also 
can be addressed on a self-regulatory basis, but only if organizations hold 
themselves accountable, not just to legal requirements, but also to industry best 
practices and standards.
英语（二）试题.7.（共15页）


31. It can be learned from the first two paragraphs that dark patterns_____
A. improve user experiences
B. leak user information for profit
C. undermine users' decision-making
D. remind users of hidden costs
32. The 2019 study on dark patterns is mentioned to show_____ .
A. their major flaws
B. their complex designs
C. their severe damage
D. their strong presence
33. To handle digital deception, businesses should_____ .
A. listen to customer feedback
B. talk with relevant teams
C. turn to independent agencies
D. rely on professional training
34. The additional regulations under the CCPA are intended to_____ .
A. guide users through opt-out processes
B. protect consumers from being tricked
C. grant companies data privacy rights
D. restrict access to problematic content
35. According to the last paragraph, a key to coping with dark patterns 
is_____ .
A. new legal requirements
B. businesses' self-discipline
C. strict regulatory standards
D. consumers5 safety awareness
英语（二）试题.8.（共15页）


Text 4
Although ethics classes are common around the world, scientists are unsure 
if their lessons can actually change behavior; evidence either way is weak, 
relying on contrived laboratory tests or sometimes unreliable self-reports. But a 
new study published in Cognition found that, in at least one real-world situation, 
a single ethics lesson may have had lasting effects.
The researchers investigated one class session's impact on eating meat. They 
chose this particular behavior for three reasons, according to study co-author Eric 
Schwitzgebel, a philosopher at the University of California, Riverside: students' 
attitudes on the topic are variable and unstable, behavior is easily measurable, 
and ethics literature largely agrees that eating less meat is good because it reduces 
environmental harm and animal suffering. Half of the students in four large 
philosophy classes read an article on the ethics of factory-farmed meat, optionally 
watched an 11 -minute video on the topic and joined a 50-minute discussion. The 
other half focused on charitable giving instead. Then, unknown to the students, 
the researchers studied their anonymized meal-card purchases for that semester— 
nearly 14,000 receipts for almost 500 students.
Schwitzgebel predicted the intervention would have no effect; he had 
previously found that ethics professors do not differ from other professors on a 
range of behaviors, including voting rates, blood donation and returning library 
books. But among student subjects who discussed meat ethics, meal purchases 
containing meat decreased from 52 to 45 percent—and this effect held steady for 
the study's duration of several weeks. Purchases from the other group remained at 
52 percent.
"That's actually a pretty large effect for a pretty small intervention," 
Schwitzgebel says. Psychologist Nina Strohminger at the University of 
Pennsylvania, who was not involved in the study, says she wants the effect to be 
real but cannot rule out some unknown confounding variable. And if real, she 
notes, it might be reversible by another nudge: "Easy come, easy go. ”
Schwitzgebel suspects the greatest impact came from social influence— 
classmates or teaching assistants leading the discussions may have shared their 
own vegetarianism, showing it as achievable or more common. Second, the 
video may have had an emotional impact. Least rousing, he thinks, was rational 
argument, although his co-authors say reason might play a bigger role. Now the 
researchers are probing the specific effects of teaching style, teaching assistants9 
eating habits and students' video exposure. Meanwhile Schwitzgebel—who had 
predicted no effect—will be eating his words.
英语（二）试题.9.（共15页）


36. Scientists generally believe that the effects of ethics classes are_____ .
A. hard to determine
B. narrowly interpreted
C. difficult to ignore
D. poorly summarized
37. Which of the following is a reason for the researchers to study meat eating?
A. It is common among students.
B. It is a behavior easy to measure.
C. It is important to students' health.
D. It is a hot topic in ethics classes.
38. Eric SchwitzgebeFs previous findings suggest that ethics professors_____ .
A. are seldom critical of their students
B. are less sociable than other professors
C. are not sensitive to political issues
D. are not necessarily ethically better
39. Nina Strohminger thinks that the effect of the intervention is_____ .
A. permanent
B. predictable
C. uncertain
D. unrepeatable
40. Eric Schwitzgebel suspects that the students' change in behavior_____ .
A. can bring psychological benefits
B. can be analyzed statistically
C. is a result of multiple factors
D. is a sign of self-development
英语（二）试题.10.（共15页）


Part B
Directions:
Read the following text and answer the questions by choosing the most suitable 
subheading from the list A-G for each of the numbered paragraphs (41-45). 
There are two extra subheadings which you do not need to use. Mark your 
answers on the ANSWER SHEET. (10 points)
A. Make it a habit
B. Don' t go it alone
C. Start low, go slow
D. Talk with your doctor
E. Listen to your body
F. Go through the motions
G. Round out your routine
How to Get Active Again After a Break
Moving your body has been shown to reduce anxiety and depression, lower 
rates of many types of cancer and the risk of a heart attack, and improve overall 
immunity. It also helps build strength and stamina.
Getting back into exercise can be a challenge in the best of times, but with 
gyms and in-person exercise classes off-limits to many people these days because 
of COVID-19 concerns, it can be tricky to know where to start. And it's 
important to get the right dose of activity. "Too much too soon either results in 
injury or burnout," says Mary Yoke, PhD, a faculty member in the kinesiology 
department at Indiana University in Bloomington. The following simple strategies 
will help you return to exercise safely after a break.
41._____________________
Don't try to go back to what you were doing before your break. If you were 
walking 3 miles a day, playing 18 holes of golf three times a week, or lifting 10- 
英语（二）试题.11.（共15页）


pound dumbbells for three sets of 10 reps, reduce activity to half a mile every 
other day, or nine holes of golf once a week with short walks 1 on other days, or 
use 5-pound dumbbells for one set of 10 reps. Increase time, distance, and 
intensity gradually. "This isn't something you can do overnight,M says Keri L. 
Denay, MD, lead author of a recent American College of Sports Medicine 
advisory that encourages Americans to not overlook the benefits of activity during 
the pandemic. But you will reap benefits such as less anxiety and improved sleep 
right away.
42. _____________________
If you're breathing too hard to talk in complete sentences, back off. If you 
feel good, go a little longer or faster. Feeling wiped out after a session? Go 
easier next time. And stay alert to serious symptoms, such as chest pain or 
pressure, severe shortness of breath or dizziness, or faintness, and seek medical 
attention immediately.
43. _____________________
Consistency is the key to getting stronger and building endurance and 
stamina. Ten minutes of activity per day is a good start, says Marcus Jackovitz, 
DPT, a physical therapist at the University of Miami Hospital. All the experts we 
spoke with highly recommend walking because it's the easiest, most accessible 
form of exercise. Although it can be a workout on its own, if your goal is to get 
back to Zumba classes, tennis, cycling, or any other activity, walking is also a 
great first step.
44. _____________________
Even if you can't yet do a favorite activity, you can practice the moves. 
With or without a club or racket, swing like you're hitting the ball. Paddle like 
you're in a kayak or canoe. Mimic your favorite swimming strokes. The action 
will remind you of the joy the activity brought you and prime your muscles for 
when you can get out there again.
45. _____________________
英语（二）试题.12.（共15页）


Exercising with others " can keep you accountable and make it more fun, so 
you're more likely to do it again,M Jackovitz says. You can do activities such as 
golf and tennis or take a walk with others and still be socially distant. But when 
you can't connect in person, consider using technology. Chat on the phone with a 
friend while you walk around your neighborhood. FaceTime or Zoom with a 
relative as you strength train or stretch at home. You can also join a livestream or 
on-demand exercise class. SilverSneakers offers them for older adults, or try 
EverWalk for virtual challenges.
Section IK Translation
46. Directions:
Translate the following text into Chinese. Write your answers on the 
ANSWER SHEET. (15 points)
Although we try our best, sometimes our paintings rarely turn out as 
originally planned. Changes in the light, the limitations of your painting 
materials, and the lack of experience and technique mean that what you start out 
trying to achieve may not come to life the way that you expected.
Although this can be frustrating and disappointing, it turns out that this can 
actually be good for you. Unexpected results have two benefits: you pretty 
quickly learn to deal with disappointment and realise that when one door closes, 
another opens. You also quickly learn to adapt and come up with creative 
solutions to the problems the painting presents and thinking outside the box will 
become your Second nature. In fact, creative problem-solving skills are 
incredibly useful in daily life, with which you're more likely to be able to find a 
solution when problem arises.
英语（二）试题.13.（共15页）


Section IV Writing
Part A
47. Directions:
Suppose you are planning a campus food festival, write an e-mail to the 
international students in your university to
1) introduce the food festival, and
2) invite them to participate.
You should write about 100 words on the ANSWER SHEET.
Do not use your own name in the email. Use “Li Ming" instead. (10 points)
Part B
48. Directions:
Write an essay based on the following chart. In your writing, you should
1) interpret the chart, and
2) give your comments.
You should write about 150 words on the ANSWER SHEET. (15 points)
2018-2020我国快递业务量变动情况
（单位：10亿件）
英语（二）试题.14.（共15页）


2022年考研英语（二）真题答案速査表
1 ~ 5
BBADC
6 ~10
ACCBB
11 ~15
CDBAA
16 ~20
DADCD
21 ~25
DCCBA
26 〜30
DACDA
31 ~35
CDBBB
36 ~40
ABDCC
41 ~45
CEAFB
Section ID Translation
尽管我们尽了自己最大的努力，但有时我们的绘画很少能达到预期的效果。光线的变 
化，绘画材料的限制以及经验和技巧的缺乏，都意味着你最初想要呈现的效果也许并不会如 
你预期的那样生动逼真。
虽然这可能令人沮丧和失望，但事实证明，这实际上可能对你有好处。意想不到的结果 
有两个好处:你很快就能学会处理失望情绪，并意识到当一扇门关闭时，另一扇门就会打开。 
你也能很快学会适应并想出创造性的办法来解决绘画中出现的问题，而且跳出固有思维模式. 
将成为你的第二天性。实际上，创造性的问题解决技能在日常生活中十分有用，掌握这种技 
能，你就更有可能在问题出现时找到解决办法。
英语（二）试题.15.（共15页）
